While message definitions and topic information can be informative,
sometimes the best way to understand what is going on is
to look at the messages themselves as they are published to a topic.
For example, when the turtle rotates left and right,
which axis is it actually rotating about?
What are the units of rotation?
A rotation expressed in terms of degree or radians?
To get the answer of this question,
you can use the command rostopic echo.
Let's dive right into its usage,
rostopic echo, and then the name of the topic, turtle1 cmd _vel.
Again, if you've forgotten the name of a topic,
you can easily find it by using tab completion or by using the command rostopic list,
which you were introduced to earlier.
When you hit Enter,
the terminal cursor will move to a new line
and it will appear as though nothing has happened.
Fear not, rostopic echo is simply waiting
for a message to be published on the cmd _vel topic.
In order to publish a message to the topic,
we must jump all the way back to the console window for a turtle_teleop _key node.
I'm going to hit the left arrow key.
As expected, the turtle turned counterclockwise by some angle for about one second.
I'd estimate that the actual number is greater than 90 degrees,
but perhaps less than 135 degrees.
Let's go back to the rostopic echo terminal and see what happened.
As you can see,
we've got the message.
All of the velocity components are zero with
the exception of the z-component of the angular velocity.
Here, we see a value of two.
This tell us that when the turtle rotates counterclockwise,
it is doing so around the z-axis.
The magnitude of the velocity tell us that the units
associated with the movement are probably in radiance per second.
A quick math check tells us that two radians correspond to
approximately 114.6 degrees. There we have it.
You should now have some understanding about rostopic echo and
how it can be used for investigating the messages passing over a topic.
As a side note, the developers are for us elected
to standardize around SI unit whenever applicable.
So length is measured in meters.
Mass is measured in kilograms.
Time is measured in seconds.
Angles are measured in radians and so on.
You've now completed a brief tour of the ros command line tools.
Armed with this knowledge and
a general understanding of the ROS communications architecture,
you should be prepared to move on to
the next step setting out your first catkin workspace.